SQL

SQL (Structured Query Language) is a special-purpose programming language designed for managing data held in a relational database
management system (RDBMS), or for stream processing in a relational data stream management system (RDSMS). In SQL, tables and
query results are lists of rows: the same row may occur multiple times, and the order of rows can be employed in queries.
The SQL language is subdivided into several language elements, including:
	- clauses, which are constituent components of statements and queries (in some cases these are optional);
	- expressions, which can produce either scalar values, or tables consisting of columns and rows of data;
	- predicates, which specify conditions that can be evaluated to SQL three-valued logic (true/false/unknown) or Boolean truth values and
	  are used to limit the effects of statements and queries, or to change program flow;
	- queries, which retrieve the data based on specific criteria;
	- statements, which may have a persistent effect on schema and data, or may control transactions, program flow, connections, sessions,
	  or diagnostics;
	- SQL statements also include the semicolon (";") statement terminator. Though not required on every platform, it is defined as a standard
	  part of the SQL grammar;
	- insignificant whitespace is generally ignored in SQL statements and queries, making it easier to format SQL code for readability.

Data manipulation language (DML)	

A data manipulation language (DML) is a family of syntax elements similar to a computer programming language used for selecting, inserting,
deleting and updating data in a database. DML comprises the SQL data change statements, which modify stored data but not the schema or
database objects.
DML statements are used for managing data within schema objects. Some examples:
SELECT - retrieve data from the a database
INSERT - insert data into a table
UPDATE - updates existing data within a table
DELETE - deletes all records from a table, the space for the records remain

Data definition language (DDL)

A data definition language (DDL) is a syntax similar to a computer programming language for defining data structures, especially database
schemas.  SQL uses a collection of imperative verbs whose effect is to modify the schema of the database by adding, changing, or deleting
definitions of tables or other objects. These statements can be freely mixed with other SQL statements, so the DDL is not truly a separate
language.
DDL statements are used to define the database structure or schema. Some examples:
CREATE - to create objects in the database
ALTER - alters the structure of the database
DROP - delete objects from the database
TRUNCATE - remove all records from a table, including all spaces allocated for the records are removed